<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h2>
			<p>Sheridan waited until he heard the sound of the outer door closing; then he rose and pushed a tiny disk set in the wall. Jackson appeared.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHas Bibbs got home from work?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMist‚Äô Bibbs? No, suh.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTell him I want to see him, soon as he comes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYessuh.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sheridan returned to his chair and fixed his attention fiercely upon the newspaper. He found it difficult to pursue the items beyond their explanatory rubrics‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere was nothing unusual or startling to concentrate his attention:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMotorman Puts Blame on Brakes. Three Killed when Car Slides.‚Äù ‚ÄúBurglars Make Big Haul.‚Äù ‚ÄúBoard Works Approve Big Car-line Extension.‚Äù ‚ÄúHoldup Men Injure Two. Man Found in Alley, Skull Fractured.‚Äù ‚ÄúSickening Story Told in Divorce Court.‚Äù ‚ÄúPlan New Eighteen-story Structure.‚Äù ‚ÄúSchoolgirl Meets Death under Automobile.‚Äù ‚ÄúNegro Cuts Three. One Dead.‚Äù ‚ÄúLife Crushed Out. Third Elevator Accident in Same Building Causes Action by Coroner.‚Äù ‚ÄúDeclare Militia will be Menace. Polish Societies Protest to Governor in Church Rioting Case.‚Äù ‚ÄúShort $3,500 in Accounts, Trusted Man Kills Self with Drug.‚Äù ‚ÄúFound Frozen. Family Without Food or Fuel. Baby Dead when Parents Return Home from Seeking Work.‚Äù ‚ÄúMinister Returned from Trip Abroad Lectures on Big Future of Our City. Sees Big Improvement during Short Absence. Says No European City Holds Candle.‚Äù (Sheridan nodded approvingly here.)</p>
			<p>Bibbs came through the hall whistling, and entered the room briskly. ‚ÄúWell, father, did you want me?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes. Sit down.‚Äù Sheridan got up, and Bibbs took a seat by the fire, holding out his hands to the crackling blaze, for it was cold outdoors.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI came within seven of the shop record today,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúI handled more strips than any other workman has any day this month. The nearest to me is sixteen behind.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere!‚Äù exclaimed his father, greatly pleased. ‚ÄúWhat‚Äôd I tell you? I‚Äôd like to hear Gurney hint again that I wasn‚Äôt right in sending you there‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI would just like to hear him! And you‚ÅÝ‚Äîain‚Äôt you ashamed of makin‚Äô such a fuss about it? Ain‚Äôt you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt go at it in the right spirit the other time,‚Äù Bibbs said, smiling brightly, his face ruddy in the cheerful firelight. ‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt know the difference it meant to like a thing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I guess I‚Äôve pretty thoroughly vindicated my judgement. I guess I <em>have</em>! I said the shop‚Äôd be good for you, and it was. I said it wouldn‚Äôt hurt you, and it hasn‚Äôt. It‚Äôs been just exactly what I said it would be. Ain‚Äôt that so?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLooks like it!‚Äù Bibbs agreed, gaily.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I‚Äôd like to know any place I been wrong, first and last! Instead o‚Äô hurting you, it‚Äôs been the makin‚Äô of you‚ÅÝ‚Äîphysically. You‚Äôre a good inch taller‚Äôn what I am, and you‚Äôd be a bigger man than what I am if you‚Äôd get some flesh on your bones; and you <em>are</em> gettin‚Äô a little. Physically, it‚Äôs started you out to be the huskiest one o‚Äô the whole family. Now, then, mentally‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs different. I don‚Äôt say it unkindly, Bibbs, but you got to do something for yourself mentally, just like what‚Äôs begun physically. And I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to help you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sheridan decided to sit down again. He brought his chair close to his son‚Äôs, and, leaning over, tapped Bibbs‚Äôs knee confidentially. ‚ÄúI got plans for you, Bibbs,‚Äù he said.</p>
			<p>Bibbs instantly looked thoroughly alarmed. He drew back. ‚ÄúI‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôm all right now, father.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúListen.‚Äù Sheridan settled himself in his chair, and spoke in the tone of a reasonable man reasoning. ‚ÄúListen here, Bibbs. I had another blow today, and it was a hard one and right in the face, though I <em>have</em> been expectin‚Äô it some little time back. Well, it‚Äôs got to be met. Now I‚Äôll be frank with you. As I said a minute ago, mentally I couldn‚Äôt ever called you exactly strong. You been a little weak both ways, most of your life. Not but what I think you <em>got</em> a mentality, if you‚Äôd learn to use it. You got willpower, I‚Äôll say that for you. I never knew boy or man that could be stubborner‚ÅÝ‚Äînever one in my life! Now, then, you‚Äôve showed you could learn to run that machine best of any man in the shop, in no time at all. That looks to me like you could learn to do other things. I don‚Äôt deny but what it‚Äôs an encouragin‚Äô sign. I don‚Äôt deny that, at all. Well, that helps me to think the case ain‚Äôt so hopeless as it looks. You‚Äôre all I got to meet this blow with, but maybe you ain‚Äôt as poor material as I thought. Your tellin‚Äô me about comin‚Äô within seven strips of the shop‚Äôs record today looks to me like encouragin‚Äô information brought in at just about the right time. Now, then, I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to give you a raise. I wanted to send you straight on up through the shops‚ÅÝ‚Äîa year or two, maybe‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut I can‚Äôt do it. I lost Jim, and now I‚Äôve lost Roscoe. He‚Äôs quit. He‚Äôs laid down on me. If he ever comes back at all, he‚Äôll be a long time pickin‚Äô up the strings, and, anyway, he ain‚Äôt the man I thought he was. I can‚Äôt count on him. I got to have <em>somebody I know</em> I can count on. And I‚Äôm down to this: you‚Äôre my last chance. Bibbs, I got to learn you to use what brains you got and see if we can‚Äôt develop ‚Äôem a little. Who knows? And I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to put my time in on it. I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to take you right downtown with <em>me</em>, and I won‚Äôt be hard on you if you‚Äôre a little slow at first. And I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to do the big thing for you. I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to make you feel you got to do the big thing for me, in return. I‚Äôve vindicated my policy with you about the shop, and now I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to turn right around and swing you ‚Äôway over ahead of where the other boys started, and I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to make an appeal to your ambition that‚Äôll make you dizzy!‚Äù He tapped his son on the knee again. ‚ÄúBibbs, I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to start you off this way: I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to make you a director in the Pump Works Company; I‚Äôm goin‚Äô to make you vice-president of the Realty Company and a vice-president of the Trust Company!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Bibbs jumped to his feet, blanched. ‚ÄúOh no!‚Äù he cried.</p>
			<p>Sheridan took his dismay to be the excitement of sudden joy. ‚ÄúYes, sir! And there‚Äôs some pretty fat little salaries goes with those vice-presidencies, and a pinch o‚Äô stock in the Pump Company with the directorship. You thought I was pretty mean about the shop‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, I know you did!‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut you see the old man can play it both ways. And so right now, the minute you‚Äôve begun to make good the way I wanted you to, I deal from the new deck. And I‚Äôll keep on handin‚Äô it out bigger and bigger every time you show me you‚Äôre big enough to play the hand I deal you. I‚Äôm startin‚Äô you with a pretty big one, my boy!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut I don‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI don‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI don‚Äôt want it!‚Äù Bibbs stammered.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôd you say?‚Äù Sheridan thought he had not heard aright.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt want it, father. I thank you‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI do thank you‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sheridan looked perplexed. ‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs the matter with you? Didn‚Äôt you understand what I was tellin‚Äô you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou sure? I reckon you didn‚Äôt. I offered‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI know, I know! But I can‚Äôt take it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs the matter with you?‚Äù Sheridan was half amazed, half suspicious. ‚ÄúYour head feel funny?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve never been quite so sane in my life,‚Äù said Bibbs, ‚Äúas I have lately. And I‚Äôve got just what I want. I‚Äôm living exactly the right life. I‚Äôm earning my daily bread, and I‚Äôm happy in doing it. My wages are enough. I don‚Äôt want any more money, and I don‚Äôt deserve any‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDamnation!‚Äù Sheridan sprang up. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôve turned Socialist! You been listening to those fellows down there, and you‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, sir. I think there‚Äôs a great deal in what they say, but that isn‚Äôt it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sheridan tried to restrain his growing fury, and succeeded partially. ‚ÄúThen what is it? What‚Äôs the matter?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNothing,‚Äù his son returned, nervously. ‚ÄúNothing‚ÅÝ‚Äîexcept that I‚Äôm content. I don‚Äôt want to change anything.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy not?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Bibbs had the incredible folly to try to explain. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll tell you, father, if I can. I know it may be hard to understand‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, I think it may be,‚Äù said Sheridan, grimly. ‚ÄúWhat you say usually is a <em>little</em> that way. Go on!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Perturbed and distressed, Bibbs rose instinctively; he felt himself at every possible disadvantage. He was a sleeper clinging to a dream‚ÅÝ‚Äîa rough hand stretched to shake him and waken him. He went to a table and made vague drawings upon it with a finger, and as he spoke he kept his eyes lowered. ‚ÄúYou weren‚Äôt altogether right about the shop‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat is, in one way you weren‚Äôt, father.‚Äù He glanced up apprehensively. Sheridan stood facing him, expressionless, and made no attempt to interrupt. ‚ÄúThat‚Äôs difficult to explain,‚Äù Bibbs continued, lowering his eyes again, to follow the tracings of his finger. ‚ÄúI‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI believe the shop might have done for me this time if I hadn‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Äîif something hadn‚Äôt helped me to‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, not only to bear it, but to be happy in it. Well, I <em>am</em> happy in it. I want to go on just as I am. And of all things on earth that I don‚Äôt want, I don‚Äôt want to live a business life‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI don‚Äôt want to be drawn into it. I don‚Äôt think it <em>is</em> living‚ÅÝ‚Äîand now I <em>am</em> living. I have the healthful toil‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I can think. In business as important as yours I couldn‚Äôt think anything but business. I don‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI don‚Äôt think making money is worth while.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGo on,‚Äù said Sheridan, curtly, as Bibbs paused timidly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt hasn‚Äôt seemed to get anywhere, that I can see,‚Äù said Bibbs. ‚ÄúYou think this city is rich and powerful‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut what‚Äôs the use of its being rich and powerful? They don‚Äôt teach the children any more in the schools because the city is rich and powerful. They teach them more than they used to because some people‚ÅÝ‚Äînot rich and powerful people‚ÅÝ‚Äîhave thought the thoughts to teach the children. And yet when you‚Äôve been reading the paper I‚Äôve heard you objecting to the children being taught anything except what would help them to make money. You said it was wasting the taxes. You want them taught to make a living, but not to live. When I was a little boy this wasn‚Äôt an ugly town; now it‚Äôs hideous. What‚Äôs the use of being big just to be hideous? I mean I don‚Äôt think all this has meant really going ahead‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs just been getting bigger and dirtier and noisier. Wasn‚Äôt the whole country happier and in many ways wiser when it was smaller and cleaner and quieter and kinder? I know you think I‚Äôm an utter fool, father, but, after all, though, aren‚Äôt business and politics just the housekeeping part of life? And wouldn‚Äôt you despise a woman that not only made her housekeeping her ambition, but did it so noisily and dirtily that the whole neighborhood was in a continual turmoil over it? And suppose she talked and thought about her housekeeping all the time, and was always having additions built to her house when she couldn‚Äôt keep clean what she already had; and suppose, with it all, she made the house altogether unpeaceful and unlivable‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúJust one minute!‚Äù Sheridan interrupted, adding, with terrible courtesy, ‚ÄúIf you will permit me? Have you ever been right about anything?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt quite‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI ask the simple question: Have you ever been right about anything whatever in the course of your life? Have you ever been right upon any subject or question you‚Äôve thought about and talked about? Can you mention one single time when you were proved to be right?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He was flourishing the bandaged hand as he spoke, but Bibbs said only, ‚ÄúIf I‚Äôve always been wrong before, surely there‚Äôs more chance that I‚Äôm right about this. It seems reasonable to suppose something would be due to bring up my average.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, I thought you wouldn‚Äôt see the point. And there‚Äôs another you probably couldn‚Äôt see, but I‚Äôll take the liberty to mention it. You been balkin‚Äô all your life. Pretty much everything I ever wanted you to do, you‚Äôd let out <em>some</em> kind of a holler, like you are now‚ÅÝ‚Äîand yet I can‚Äôt seem to remember once when you didn‚Äôt have to lay down and do what I said. But go on with your remarks about our city and the business of this country. Go on!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt want to be a part of it,‚Äù said Bibbs, with unwonted decision. ‚ÄúI want to keep to myself, and I‚Äôm doing it now. I couldn‚Äôt, if I went down there with you. I‚Äôd be swallowed into it. I don‚Äôt care for money enough to‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo,‚Äù his father interrupted, still dangerously quiet. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôve never had to earn a living. Anybody could tell that by what you say. Now, let me remind you: you‚Äôre sleepin‚Äô in a pretty good bed; you‚Äôre eatin‚Äô pretty fair food; you‚Äôre wearin‚Äô pretty fine clothes. Just suppose one o‚Äô these noisy housekeepers‚ÅÝ‚Äîme, for instance‚ÅÝ‚Äîdecided to let you do your own housekeepin‚Äô. May I ask what your proposition would be?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm earning nine dollars a week,‚Äù said Bibbs, sturdily. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs enough. I shouldn‚Äôt mind at all.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho‚Äôs payin‚Äô you that nine dollars a week?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy work!‚Äù Bibbs answered. ‚ÄúAnd I‚Äôve done so well on that clipping-machine I believe I could work up to fifteen or even twenty a week at another job. I could be a fair plumber in a few months, I‚Äôm sure. I‚Äôd rather have a trade than be in business‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI should, infinitely!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou better set about learnin‚Äô one pretty dam‚Äô quick!‚Äù But Sheridan struggled with his temper and again was partially successful in controlling it. ‚ÄúYou better learn a trade over Sunday, because you‚Äôre either goin‚Äô down with me to my office Monday morning‚ÅÝ‚Äîor‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou can go to plumbing!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll right,‚Äù said Bibbs, gently. ‚ÄúI can get along.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Sheridan raised his hands sardonically, as in prayer. ‚ÄúO God,‚Äù he said, ‚Äúthis boy was crazy enough before he began to earn his nine dollars a week, and now his money‚Äôs gone to his head! Can‚Äôt You do nothin‚Äô for him?‚Äù Then he flung his hands apart, palms outward, in a furious gesture of dismissal. ‚ÄúGet out o‚Äô this room! You got a skull that‚Äôs thicker‚Äôn a whale‚Äôs thighbone, but it‚Äôs cracked spang all the way across! You hated the machine-shop so bad when I sent you there, you went and stayed sick for over two years‚ÅÝ‚Äîand now, when I offer to take you out of it and give you the mint, you holler for the shop like a calf for its mammy! You‚Äôre cracked! Oh, but I got a fine layout here! One son died, one quit, and one‚Äôs a loon! The loon‚Äôs all I got left! <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">H. P.</abbr> Ellersly‚Äôs wife had a crazy brother, and they undertook to keep him at the house. First morning he was there he walked straight though a ten-dollar plate-glass window out into the yard. He says, ‚ÄòOh, look at the pretty dandelion!‚Äô That‚Äôs what you‚Äôre doin‚Äô! You want to spend your life sayin‚Äô, ‚ÄòOh, look at the pretty dandelion!‚Äô and you don‚Äôt care a tinker‚Äôs dam‚Äô what you bust! Well, mister, loon or no loon, cracked and crazy or whatever you are, I‚Äôll take you with me Monday morning, and I‚Äôll work you and learn you‚ÅÝ‚Äîyes, and I‚Äôll lam you, if I got to‚ÅÝ‚Äîuntil I‚Äôve made something out of you that‚Äôs fit to be called a business man! I‚Äôll keep at you while I‚Äôm able to stand, and if I have to lay down to die I‚Äôll be whisperin‚Äô at you till they get the embalmin‚Äô-fluid into me! Now go on, and don‚Äôt let me hear from you again till you can come and tell me you‚Äôve waked up, you poor, pitiful, dandelion-pickin‚Äô <em>sleep</em>walker!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Bibbs gave him a queer look. There was something like reproach in it, for once; but there was more than that‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe seemed to be startled by his father‚Äôs last word.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
